"Facets" by Anthony Alcaro

Release along with the "Quixe" interpreter.

Volume - Extenstions

Include Automap by Mark Tilford.
Use automap hide paths through closed doors.

Volume - Rules

Section - Basic Rules

Rule for deciding whether all includes something: it does not.
Rule for printing a parser error when the latest parser error is the nothing to do error:
	Say "You need to be decisive." instead.
	
After going a direction (called way-pushed) with something (called the thing-pushed): 
	Say "You push [the thing-pushed] [way-pushed] to [the location]."; 
	Continue the action.

Section - New Actions

Using is an action applying to things.
Understand "Use [something]" as using.

Reflecting is an action applying to things.
Understand "Reflect [something]" as reflecting.

Casting is an action applying to things.
Understand "Cast [something]" as casting.

Section - Kinds

EMR is a kind of thing.
EMR is fixed in place.
EMR is scenery.

Words are a kind of thing.
Words are fixed in place.

Volume - Regions

East Wing is a region.
Radiance is in The East Wing.
Brilliance is in The East Wing.

West Wing is a region.
Opacity is in The West Wing.
Flourescence is in The West Wing.

Volume - Backdrops

The Sapphire-Light Stream is a Backdrop. "A stream of sapphire light reflects through the room."
The Sapphire-Light Stream is not scenery.

The  Emerald-Light Stream is a Backdrop. "A stream of emerald light reflects through the room."
The Emerald-Light Stream is not scenery.

Volume - "Instead of" Actions

Chapter - General Events

Instead of taking EMR:
	Say "The light is incorporeal."

Chapter - Beginning Events

Section - Sword Event

Instead of examining the Left Pedestal:
	If the player has the Sword:
		Say "The pedestal is empty.";
	Otherwise:
		Now the Sword is on the Left Pedestal;
		Say "Atop the left pedestal is a sword. The blade of the sword looks as though it is crystalized."	

Section - Shield Event

Instead of examining the Center Pedestal:
	If the player has the Shield:
		Say "The pedestal is empty.";
	Otherwise:
		Now the Shield is on the Center Pedestal;
		Say "Atop the center pedestal is a shield. The shield is reflecting light, although there doesn't seem to be any light sources in the room."

Section - Wand Event

Instead of examining the Right Pedestal:
	If the player has the Wand:
		Say "The pedestal is empty.";
	Otherwise:
		Now the Wand is on the Right Pedestal;
		Say "Atop the right pedestal is a wand. A thin veil of fog surrounds the wand, refracting its true shape."

Chapter - Path Events

Section - Sword Path

Part - Pillar

Instead of taking The Pillar:
	Say "The pillar is far too large to carry"

Instead of going to the Pavillion with The Pillar:
	If swpFlag2 < 1:
		Say "The crystalized threads are blocking the path";
	Otherwise:
		Continue the action.
	
Part - Sword

Instead of using The Sword:
	If the player is in Carat:
		If swpFlag1 < 1:
			Say "You strike the pillar with all your might and it collapses forward.";
			Now The Pillar is in Carat;
			Now The Interaction is nowhere;
			Now swpFlag1 is 1;
	If the player is in Girdle:
		If swpFlag2 < 1:
			Say "You shatter the crystalized threads with the sword. Now there is more room to move.";
			Now swpFlag2 is 1;
	If the player is in Bezel:
		If The Pillar is in Bezel:
			If swpFlag3 < 1:
				Now the Sturdy Door is unlocked;
				Say "You slam your sword into the pillar and manage to knock it onto the floor plate. You hear a great rumble behind the sturdy door.";
				Now swpFlag3 is 1;
			Otherwise:
				Say "The pillar is where it belongs";
	Otherwise:
		Say "There is nothing to strike here";

Section - Shield Path

Part - Blue Light

Instead of entering The Blue Light:
	Say "As you enter it, the lights reflects off of your shield.";
	Try reflecting The Blue Light.

Instead of reflecting The Blue Light:
	If shpFlag1 < 1:
		Say "You reflect the light source with the shield, directing the beam of light above the door into the gem. It changes to a brilliant blue and in the distance you hear the sound of gears moving.";
		Now shpFlag1 is 1;
		Move The Sapphire-Light Stream to the East Wing;
		Now The Sapphire is in Dispersion;
		Now The Dull Gem is nowhere;
	Otherwise:
		Say "You try reflecting the light elsewhere, but nothing happens."
		
Part - Green Light

Instead of entering The Green Light:
	Say "As you enter it, the lights reflects off of your shield.";
	Try reflecting The Green Light.

Instead of reflecting The Green Light:
	If shpFlag2 < 1:
		Say "You reflect the light source with the shield, directing the beam of light above the door into the gem. It changes to a brilliant green and in the distance you hear the sound of gears moving.";
		Now shpFlag2 is 1;
		Move The Emerald-Light Stream to the West Wing;
		Now The Emerald is in Dispersion;
		Now The Opaque Gem is nowhere;
	Otherwise:
		Say "You try reflecting the light elsewhere, but nothing happens."
		
Part - Shield

Instead of using The Shield:
	If the player is in Polish:
		If shpFlag3 < 1:
			Say "You use the shield to deflect the gems flying through the room. As you reach the origin of the stram of gems, you reach for a large stone and plug the hole. The light in the center of the room is no longer disrupted.";
			Now shpFlag3 is 1;
			Now The Opal is in Dispersion;
			Now The Flying Pieces are nowhere;
		Otherwise:
			Try reflecting The Light;
			Continue the action;
	Otherwise:
		Try reflecting The Light;
		Continue the action.
		
Part - Shield Puzzle End

After going to Dispersion:
	If shpFlag1 is 1:
		If shpFlag2 is 1:
			If shpFlag3 is 1:
				Say "The four bright lights power into the giant gem at the center of the room. To the north, you hear the sound of glass breaking.";
				Now Shards are in Polish;
				Now the Mirror Door is unlocked;
				Try looking;
			Otherwise:
				Try looking;
		Otherwise:
			Try looking;
	Otherwise:
		Try looking;
	

Section - Wand Path

Part - Wand

Instead of using The Wand:
	If the player is in Clouds:
		If wapFlag1 < 1:
			Say "Time reverses as you watch the collapsed stones reform along the wall. It reveals the words 'Perspiciatis Unde Omnis'";
			Now Perspiciatis-Unde-Omnis is in Clouds;
			Now the player has Perspiciatis Unde Omnis;
			Now wapFlag1 is 1;
		Otherwise:
			Say "The wand flickers, but nothing happens";
	If the player is in Blemish:
		If wapFlag3 < 1:
			Say "Time stops in the room and with it all off the floating stones. They spell out the words 'Quis Autem Vel Eum'";
			Now Quis-Autem-Vel-Eum is in Blemish;
			Now the player has Quis Autem Vel Eum;
			Now wapFlag3 is 1;
		Otherwise:
			Say "The wand flickers, but nothing happens";
	Otherwise:
		Say "The wand flickers, but nothing happens";


Part - Casting

Instead of casting Perspiciatis Unde Omnis:
	If the player is in Feathers:
		If wapFlag2 < 1:
			Say "You wave the wand while saying the incantation. The room lights up with a blast of light and you hear gears moving in the distance.";
			Now wapFlag2 is 1;
		Otherwise:
			Say "The wand flickers as you say the incantation, but nothing happens";
	Otherwise:
		Say "The wand flickers as you say the incantation, but nothing happens"
		
Instead of casting Quis Autem Vel Eum:
	If the player is in Carbon Spots:
		If wapFlag4 < 1:
			Say "You wave the wand while saying the incantation. The room lights up with a blast of light and you hear gears moving behind the foggy door to the north.";
			Now wapFlag4 is 1;
		Otherwise:
			Say "The wand flickers as you say the incantation, but nothing happens";
	Otherwise:
		Say "The wand flickers as you say the incantation, but nothing happens"
		
Part - Wand Puzzle End

After going to Inclusion:
	If wapFlag2 is 1:
		If wapFlag4 is 1:
			Say "The wand shows you a vision of the foggy door's incorporeal form phasing into existance.";
			Now The Foggy Door is unlocked;
			Try looking.

Chapter - Ending Events

Section - Finish Room
	
Part - Beam of Light

Instead of reflecting The Beam of Light:
	If the player has The Shield:
		Say "When you get close, the mirrored surface of your shield turns to stone. As you step away, it returns.";
	Otherwise:
		Say "You have nothing to reflect it with."

Instead of entering The Beam of Light, try using The Beam of Light.

Instead of using The Beam of Light:
	If the player has The Sword:
		If the player has The Shield:
			If the player has The Wand:
				Say "The beam of light flickers when you attempt to enter it.";
			Otherwise:
				Say "You enter the beam of light and find yourself in a familiar location";
				Now the player is in Crown;
		Otherwise:
			Say "You enter the beam of light and find yourself in a familiar location";
			Now the player is in Crown;
	Otherwise:
		Say "You enter the beam of light and find yourself in a familiar location";
		Now the player is in Crown.
	
Part - Ancient Device
	
Instead of taking the Ancient Device:
	Say "It is far too big to carry with me"

Instead of using the Ancient Device:
	If the Sturdy Door is unlocked:
		If the Mirror Door is unlocked:
			If the Foggy Door is unlocked:
				Say "The device comes to life before your eyes and you gaze into its eternal light. When you come to, you realize you are in the outside world.";
				Now the player is in Shattered;
				Say "You're free from the magical prison, but you don't know where you should go next. For now, you rest.";
				End the story;
			Otherwise:
				Say "The devices comes to life, but fizzles out and your body shatters before your own eyes.";
				End the story;
		Otherwise:
			Say "The devices comes to life, but fizzles out and your body shatters before your own eyes.";
			End the story;
	Otherwise:
		Say "The devices comes to life, but fizzles out and your body shatters before your own eyes.";
		End the story.

Volume - Variables

Section - Sword Path Variables

Part - Pillar

swpFlag1 is a number that varies.
swpFlag1 is 0.

Part - Crystalized Thread

swpFlag2 is a number that varies.
swpFlag2 is 0.

Part - Floor Plate

swpFlag3 is a number that varies.
swpFlag3 is 0.

Section - Shield Path Variables

Part - Radiance Room

shpFlag1 is a number that varies.
shpFlag1 is 0.

Part - Opacity Room

shpFlag2 is a number that varies.
shpFlag2 is 0.

Part - Polish Room

shpFlag3 is a number that varies.
shpFlag3 is 0.

Section - Wand Path Variables

Part - Clouds Room

wapFlag1 is a number that varies.
wapFlag1 is 0.

Part - Feathers Room

wapFlag2 is a number that varies.
wapFlag2 is 0.

Part - Blemish Room

wapFlag3 is a number that varies.
wapFlag3 is 0.

Part - Carbon Spots Room

wapFlag4 is a number that varies.
wapFlag4 is 0.

Volume - Game

Chapter - Beginnings

Player is in Crown.

Section - Crown

Part - Description

Crown is a room. "The room around you is dark and barren. The glass-like walls reflect movements in the corners of your eyes. After a moment to adjust, you can see 3 pedestals before you, each with an object atop them. There is a door carved into the wall to the north."

Part - Doors

The Carved Door is a closed locked door.
The Carved Door is north of Crown and south of Symmetry.
The Carved Door is scenery.

Part - Sword Event

Left Pedestal is a supporter in Crown. "The left pedestal has jagged protrusions, yet looks sturdy."
The Sword is a thing. "Atop the left pedestal is a sword. The blade of the sword looks as though it is crystalized."

After taking the Sword:
	If the player is in Crown:
		Say "The carved door in the northern wall glows bright. Its seams start to crack and debris falls to the floor around it. You push it open and step through. The door closes behind you.";
		Now the Sword-etched Door is unlocked;
		Now the player is in Symmetry;
	Otherwise:
		Continue the action.

Part - Shield Event

Center Pedestal is a supporter in Crown. "The center pedestal is worn and glowing."
The Shield is a thing. "Atop the center pedestal is a shield. The shield is reflecting light, although there doesn't seem to be any light sources in the room."

After taking the Shield:
	If the player is in Crown:
		Say "The carved door in the northern wall glows bright. Its seams start to crack and debris falls to the floor around it. You push it open and step through. The door closes behind you.";
		Now the Shield-etched Door is unlocked;
		Now the player is in Symmetry;
	Otherwise:
		Continue the action.

Part - Wand Event

Right Pedestal is a supporter in Crown. "The right pedestal has pieces broken off, floating around it."
The Wand is a thing. "Atop the right pedestal is a wand. A thin veil of fog surrounds the wand, refracting its true shape."

After taking the Wand:
	If the player is in Crown:
		Say "The carved door in the northern wall glows bright. Its seams start to crack and debris falls to the floor around it. You push it open and step through. The door closes behind you.";
		Now the Wand-etched Door is unlocked;
		Now the player is in Symmetry;
	Otherwise:
		Continue the action.

Section - Symmetry

Part - Description

North of Carved Door is a room called Symmetry.
The description of Symmetry is "You're in an empty room with 4 doors. South is the carved door you came through. Southwest is a door with a sword etched into it. North is a door with a shield etched into it. Southeast is a door with a wand etched into it."

Part - Doors

The Sword-etched Door is a closed locked door.
The Sword-etched Door is southwest of Symmetry and northeast of Carat.
The Sword-etched Door is scenery.

The Shield-etched Door is a closed locked door.
The Shield-etched Door is north of Symmetry and south of Dispersion.
The Shield-etched Door is scenery.

The Wand-etched Door is a closed locked door.
The Wand-etched Door is southeast of Symmetry and northwest of Clouds.
The Wand-etched Door is scenery.

Chapter - Sword Path

Section Carat

Part - Description

Southwest of Sword-etched Door is a room called Carat.
The description of Carat is "Before you is a large chamber with a pillar in the center. There is a door to the west and northeast."

Part - Things

The Pillar is a thing. "The broken pillar looks like it could be pushed.".
The Pillar is pushable between rooms.

The Interaction is a thing in Carat. "A section of the pillar is scarred with slices and it looks like a few more could topple it."

Section - Cutlet

Part - Description

West of Carat is a room called Cutlet.
The description of Cutlet is "The room is barren and cold. There is a door to the west and the east."

Section - Cut

Part - Description

West of Cutlet is a room called Cut.
The description of Cut is "The room is barren and cold. There is a door to the north and east."

Section - Girdle

Part - Description

North of Cut is a room called Girdle.
The description of Girdle is "The room is barren and cold. There is a door to the northeast and south. The door to the northeast is covered in crystalized threads, but it looks like you can still squeeze through."

Section - Pavillion

Northeast of Girdle is a room called Pavillion.
The description of Pavillion is "The room is barren and cold. There is a door to the northeast and southwest."

Section - Bezel

Part - Description

Northeast of Pavillion is a room called Bezel.
The description of Bezel is "The room is barren and cold. There is a strange plate seated into the floor. Perhaps you could knock something onto it. To the northeast is a sturdy door while the southwest has a more simplistic looking door."

Chapter - Shield Path

Section - Dispersion

Part - Description

North of Shield-etched Door is a room called Dispersion.
The description of Dispersion is "You enter a room with doors on all 4 walls. In the center of the room is a large spherical gem with a brilliant ruby light shooting into it from the southern door."

Part - Things

Sapphire is a thing. "A brilliant sapphire light shoots into the gem from the western wall."
Sapphire is EMR.
Sapphire is not scenery.

Emerald is a thing. "A brilliant emerald light shoots into the gem from the eastern wall."
Emerald is EMR.
Emerald is not scenery.

Opal is a thing. "A brilliant opal light shoots into the gem from the northern wall."
Opal is EMR.
Opal is not scenery.

Section - Brilliance

West of Dispersion is a room called Brilliance.
The description of Brilliance is "The room is dimmly lit with a door to the east and south."

Section - Radiance

South of Brilliance is a room called Radiance.
The description of Radiance is "A beam of blue light shines down from the ceiling onto the ground in the center of the room. The only door in the room is north, where you came from. The rest of the room seems devoid of anything of importance."

A Dull Gem is in Opacity. "Above the door is a small dull gem."
The Dull Gem is fixed in place.

The Blue Light is in Radiance.
The Blue Light is EMR.

Section - Flourescence

East of Dispersion is a room called Flourescence.
The description of Flourescence is "The room is dimmly lit with a door to the west and south."

Section - Opacity

South of Flourescence is a room called Opacity.
The description of Opacity is "A beam of green light shines down from the ceiling onto the ground in the center of the room. The only door in the room is north, where you came from. The rest of the room seems devoid of anything of importance."

An Opaque Gem is in Opacity. "Above the door is a small opaque gem."
The Opaque Gem is fixed in place.

The Green Light is in Opacity.
The Green Light is EMR.

Section - Polish

North of Dispersion is a room called Polish.
The description of Polish is "In the center of the room is a bright white light shining onto the floor."

Flying Pieces are a thing in Polish. "A bunch of stone pieces are flying through the room, interrupting the light flow. They seem to eminate from a fixed point."
Flying Pieces are fixed in place.
Shards are a thing. "Shards of glass are scattered around the mirror door, though the door seems unbroken."

Chapter - Wand Path

Section - Clouds

Part - Description

Southeast of Wand-etched Door is a room called Clouds.
The description of Clouds is "There is a collapsed wall along the north side of the room. There is a door to the northwest and to the east."

Part - Things

Collapsed Stones is a thing in Clouds.
Collapsed Stones is scenery.

Perspiciatis Unde Omnis is a thing.
Perspiciatis-Unde-Omnis are a thing. "The reformed wall has words carved into it. The letters spell out Perspiciatis Unde Omnis".
Perspiciatis-Unde-Omnis are Words.


Section - Feathers

Part - Description

East of Clouds is a room called Feathers.
The description of Feathers is "There is a circle in the center of the room. Your wand calls to you to cast a spell. There is a door to the east and west."

Section - Cleavage

Part - Description

East of Feathers is a room called Cleavage.
The description of Cleavage is "You can sense the magic in this room. There is a door to the west and the northwest."

Section - Blemish

Part - Description

North of Cleavage is a room called Blemish.
The description of Blemish is "Above you, floating stones fly across the room. There is a door to the northwest and south."

Part - Things

Floating Stones is a thing in Blemish.
Floating Stones is scenery.

Quis Autem Vel Eum are a thing.
Quis-Autem-Vel-Eum are a thing. "The floating stones, frozen in time, spell out Quis Autem Vel Eum".
Quis-Autem-Vel-Eum are Words.

Section - Carbon Spots

Part - Description

Northwest of Blemish is a room called Carbon Spots.
The description of Carbon Spots is "There is a circle in the center of the room. Your wand calls to you to cast a spell."

Section - Inclusion

Part - Description

Northwest of Carbon Spots is a room called Inclusion.
The description of Inclusion is "To the northwest is a foggy door and to the southeast is a simple door."

Chapter Endings

Section - Finish

Part - Description

Northeast of Sturdy Door is a room called Finish.
North of Mirror Door is Finish.
Northwest of Foggy Door is Finish.
The description of Finish is "The room is glowing with power. You feel as though this is where you need to be."

Part - Doors

Northeast of Bezel is a door called Sturdy Door.
The Sturdy Door is locked and closed.
The Sturdy Door is scenery.

North of Polish is a door called Mirror Door.
The Mirror Door is locked and closed.
The Mirror Door is scenery.

Northwest of Inclusion is a door called Foggy Door.
The Foggy Door is locked and closed.
The Foggy Door is scenery.

Part - Things

The Ancient Device is an thing in Finish. "There is an Ancient Device seated in the middle of the room. It's has an aura of pure strength eminating from it and it has no sign of wear. You can sense something magical about it. "

The Beam of Light is an thing in Finish. "There is a brilliant beam of light is along the north wall. The light beckons you to enter it."
The Beam of Light is EMR.
The Beam of Light is not scenery.

Section - Shattered

Shattered is a room.
